Supervision Bekhruz 2026-07-16

training loss not decreasing

nll loss

validation loss or training loss?

sanity check:

5 assays: can you overfit a small batch of data? take assays with like 20~50 compounds

if the loss does not decrease and converge at a lower value than at the start, this is strong

evidence for a potential bug

if sanity check fails:

does the chemprop model receive gradients?

check the shape of your losses and targets and look for warnings

push code to repo

random chemprop representation works very well

This is an unexpected, but exciting result

randomly initialized chemprop achives 0.44 spearman corr on 500 s aureus mols

chemeleon is also a chemprop model pretrained to predict mordred descriptors on pubchem

repeat Experiment A - static ranking with chemeleon embeddings (this also a pretrained chemprop
model)

if you repeat this also,

add "d2r" and "usp7",

and take 3 samples per dataset

mean spearman on s aureues, d2r and usp7 plus standard deviation

for chemprop random, ((chemprop trained))* chemeleon

*add more results later if you find a flaw in training code

labels

Labels "target_transformed" are on different scales

some are still raw

some are log10 transformed

some are log2 transformed (MIC)

should we normalize them?

TabPFN v3 already has normalization modules built in at inference

is this builtin label normalization enabled in your training?

Constructing training batches

resampling assays to size 256?

4000 assays chosen from chembl subset

1 assay per step

1 step every 2 seconds

v3 TabPFN

Processing training assays: sample 256 compounds per assay (with replacement?)

this introduces redundancy

more efficient to merge assays into one batch

challenge:

assays still need to be processed independently

might be difficult to implement

fit_with_differentiable_input : Q: can prompt_x_tensor have something like a leading

batch dimension? even if can, we also need padding and a padding mask? no. training will be

slower

still keep assays at their original size (does this also give a speed up?)

context vs query assignment of assay compounds

ratio currently is 1:1 of context:query

ratio is not that important, context size should be suffciently big

if you have < 5 unique items in the context set this is too few

joschka todos

look at notebook with first results summary

write mail to DK with abstract from bekhruz

look at bekhruz training code

look at TabPFN regression examples fine tuning

